# Group-Project
Group project meant to build an advanced Ardiuno system
  DESCRIPTION: In this project, we utilized aspects from 4 different projects and integrated them into one overarching project with the goal of being an intruder detection system. The core of this project was a facial recognition program that utilizes Google's Teachable Machine's AI to identify faces as recognized or unrecognized. This recognition system is triggered by a motion detection system on the Arduino board that sends a signal to VS code to start the facial recognition system. Once the recognition program is going and a face is detected and matched to one of the cases, a signal will be sent back to Arduino. If the signal is unrecognized, a red buzzer will turn on, an alarm will sound, the LCD will display "Intruder Alert" and a text message will be sent to the phone number entered in the code. If the face is recognized, a blue buzzer will turn on, and the LCD will display "Face Recognized". INSTRUCTIONS: This project starts by running the Arduino program. After this, close the serial monitor and switch over to vs code. In vs code, run the program and wait a few moments for Arduino to prepare. Once everything is prepared, the motion detector will begin searching for input, and once it detects motion, after a short delay your webcam will be automatically opened. If it picks up on a recognized face from the Google's Teachable Machine AI, it will send the 'B' signal to Arduino, which will then activate the blue buzzer and display "Face Recognized" on the LCD. If the webcam detects an unrecognized face, the webcam will remain open for you to see the unrecognized screen. It will then send the 'R' signal to Arduino, which will activate the red buzzer, trigger the alarm, display "Unrecognized face!" on the LCD, and send a text to the phone number we have set in the code to receive alerts. Once it runs through these steps, the program will say "Room is clear" and will close.
